Ladies and gentlemen, that's just keep, Father.
How can we pride ourselves on having the highest standard of living in the world when we
condemn our needy agent, our blind and our physically handicapped to exist on an average
payment of less than $58 a month in order to correct this shameful neglect I have proposed
in the United States Senate that the government assume greater responsibility and public assistance
payments to the state so that we can give our American needy at least $100 a month.
Ladies and gentlemen, that's just keep, Father.
How can we pride ourselves on having the highest standard of living in the world when we condemn
our needy agent, our blind and our physically handicapped to exist on an average payment
of less than $58 a month in order to correct this shameful neglect I have proposed in the
United States Senate that the government assume greater responsibility and public assistance
payments to the state so that we can give our American needy at least $100 a month.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, that's just keep, Father.
How can we pride ourselves on having the highest standard of living in the world when we condemn
our needy agent, our blind and our physically handicapped to exist on an average payment
of less than $58 a month in order to correct this shameful neglect I have proposed in the
United States Senate that the government assume greater responsibility and public assistance
payments to the state so that we can give our American needy at least $100 a month.
Ladies and gentlemen, that's just keep, Father.
How can we pride ourselves on having the highest standard of living in the world when we condemn
our needy agent, our blind and our physically handicapped to exist on an average payment of
less than $58 a month in order to correct this shameful neglect I have proposed in the
United States Senate that the government assume greater responsibility and public assistance
payments to the state so that we can give our American needy at least $100 a month.
Ladies and gentlemen, that's just keep, Father.
Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago I was made chairman of the Senate, a Judiciary Committee
subcommittee on problems of juvenile delinquency. There's a problem of an increasing number of young
people coming in conflict with law officers committing crimes is causing a great deal of trouble
and concern all around the nation. We know too that this is a largely a local problem having to do
with the parents in the home, the kind of guidance they give our young people, the influence in the
church and in our schools. But also it is a matter in which we ought to be concerned about at all
levels of government. That is wherever the federal government or the state or the county can do
anything to help in curbing juvenile delinquency that we want to do. We are the Senate Committee hope
to offer some kind of leadership, focus attention on this problem first to find out what the extent of
it is and what we can do at the federal level to help. In the federal government we do have charge
of the enforcement of the narcotics law and we hope to increase and to better that enforcement so that
the narcotic peddlers were not imposed upon and make victims of so many of our young people.
Then of course a literature in mail crosses state lines so that we have some jurisdiction
as to the mails and as to things that are sold in interstate commerce. One of our hearings has
had to do with comic books, horror and crime comic books. We have held hearings, we had a hearing in
New York some time back in which we found that there are 30 million or rather 100 million comic
books sold each month to be read by our children. All that 100 million, about 25 million we found are the
so-called horror or crime type. I have here on the board some of these kind you'll see that here's
a man about to be shot the picked in a sudden death. Here's another person in his coffin with a
spike being driven through him. Here's a woman who is apparently being executed in some weird way.
All of them show violent death or punishment. Here's a skeleton about to pull a man into his coffin.
Here's a man who is being one who is being crushed to death and I have some others here a person
about to be killed by some kind of animal and here's a woman about to commit some kind of murder
of violent fliction. They also show disrespect for poor police. Well all of the testimony shows that
this kind of business upsets the nervous system of a normal child, let alone one who might be
not so stable. Well we complained about this a great deal and I'm happy to say that all over the
country today that local people are demanding that this ought to fill the limited from the news stand.
We found that the distributors of these horror and crime comics had tie-in sales with their
with their news dealers. That is they had to take a certain amount of this in order to get the
better magazines. We have tried to break that up. We have forced the comic book industry to appoint
a czar, a Mr. Murphy who goes over all of these comics. Of course a lot of them are good ones. They're
not all of this type and they are doing something to clean up their own house. We hope that you people
will see to it that these tie-in sales do not continue, that this kind of filth which undoubtedly
has contributed to juvenile delinquency is not offered for our children to read. We have gotten
out a report which has been filed in the Senate on our findings about comic books. We will be very
happy to send anyone who may write a copy of this very interesting report. We find also that the
advertisements in these horror and crime comics are things for young people who commit fences with
and also that when they answer these advertisements very frequently they get back suggestions that
they order pornographic or filthy literature that but you're all familiar and that is also a very
big business in the nation today. So to the extent that we cannot at the federal level try to
avoid or prevent our young people from being influenced by this kind of literature,
the extent that we can close the operation of interstate commerce to influences which are
deleterious to young people and whatever we can do at the federal level our juvenile delinquency
subcommittee expects to recommend to the Senate and I think we will accomplish much. But after all
if a local problem and requires local cooperation thank you.
Our American way of living promotes incentive for every individual. The person who works harder
or does a better job receives extra benefit. Those who produce more get more and this we believe
is a just reward. There is the danger however of any of us establishing a distorted sense of value.
We sometimes become so in growth in gaining material benefits that we forget such important
items as religion, culture, family and even our own physical well-being and even if we do not forget
them we neglect. One of the questions we must face is whether or not we have in the last two
decades gained a new leisure time only to spend it somewhat unwiz. Recreation is God's great
out of doors prescription. It is a prescription for you and me and one which doctors often prescribe
not only for us but for themselves. The value of a day and Tennessee's magnificent outdoors
or on one of our fine lakes and streams is something that cannot be overestimated.
It is conservatively estimated that some 25% of all Tennessee's,
hunt or fish or do boat, perhaps a greater percentage than participate in any other form of recreation.
The recreations of hunting and fishing are of course depended upon the wildlife resources of our state.
The many forms of wildlife in turn are dependent upon conservation practices being applied to our
soils, our waters and our forests. Thus in order to call attention to the need for continued
application of proper soil forestry water and wildlife conservation practices this proclamation
has been prepared. Whereas hunting, fishing and trapping play important roles in the initial
exploration and subsequent development of Tennessee. And whereas the wildlife resources upon which
these wholesome and healthful recreations are dependent continue to be of great aesthetic and
economic value to young and old Tennisians alive. In whereas citizens of this age,
bear an obligation to future generations to perpetuate the multitudinous values of the aforementioned
wildlife resources. Now therefore, I Frank G. Clemmet, governor of the state of Tennessee,
do hereby proclaim and to set aside the week of March 20 through March 26, 1955 to be observed
throughout the sovereign state as wildlife restoration week. And witness where I have here
unto set my hand and calls to be a fix the great seal of the state of Tennessee and the capital
and the city of Nashville this first day of March 1955.
Ladies and gentlemen, I hope this will mean more than words to us and the Tennessee will
join with others of these great United States in observing National Wildlife Week. This week coinciding
with the arrival of spring is dedicated to the conservation of America's wildlife resources,
our natural resources, our soils, waters, forest minerals and wildlife and general. The theme of this
year's National Wildlife Week observance is save America's wetlands. Some might say why
is the theme save America's wetlands? Well, with the destruction of over 75 percent of our wetlands
through drainage, pollution and thoughtless misuse, we've caused the depletion of many of our
most valuable forms of wildlife, ducks, geese, songbirds, fur bearers and fish. State and federal
conservation agencies are initiating programs for the preservation of remaining wetlands. The
health band support of every Tennessee and its require if these resources are to be saved. Let's
do a little work, have a little fun and make not only our pleasure but the pleasure of our children
and our children's children and the great outdoor life of greater and more secure.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is Estes' key fover candidate for re-election to a second term in the
United States Senate speaking to you on this occasion. On this occasion I want to talk with you about
the importance of agriculture and the position that I have taken during the 15 and a half years that
I have been either in the Congress or in the United States Senate in connection with our agricultural
problems. I feel that the farmers are the backbone of this nation. We cannot have prosperity either
for our industry or for our working people unless the farmers do well. So I have always thought to work
far and sponsor and secure the passage of programs that would give the farmer an even break with
labor and with industry. I think that all of these great segments of our economy must do well
if the nation is going to go forward and prosper. If the farmer doesn't do well the other two cannot
industry cannot have things cannot manufacture things and people are out of work in the various
plants of this nation. We have in the nation today some protection for industry and the way of
protective tariffs and other protections and that's all right up to a point and we have a
floor under wages and then salaries and wages are fixed back, collective bargaining and I believe in
collective bargaining and I believe in good wages for our working people. But you simply cannot
protect two segments of our economy and throw the farmer to the four wins. The farmer is entitled to
be treated on a parity or an inequality with industry and with labor so that I have always thought to
try to see that the farmer got prices for his products which would give him an equivalent
purchasing power and place in our economy with these other two sections. I have always thought for
90% of parity as a support price for farmers products. I know it may not be the ultimate answer
but until some other method of is arrived at which will keep farmers prices up and will not
discriminate against the farmer I'm going to continue to support 90% of parity. As a matter of
fact I have a bill pending in the Senate now which I expect to offer when the agricultural
program comes up soon in the United States Senate which will continue this program on for another
two years. I'm certain that one of the reasons why we are having unemployment in the nation today
and why there is somewhat of a recession is the fact that farmers prices have been going down and
down more than 23 or 4% whereas everything the farmer has to buy has been staying up high or even
going higher. During the month of May and June for instance parity fell from 92 to 88% whereas the
price of steel has gone up for about $3. Well that just isn't fair to the farmer it's not a good
thing for the nation and I think we ought to try to do something about it. In the Senate sometime
back I have co-sponsored the so-called fire amendment to try to give some protection to our dairy
farmers. This fire amendment provided that 90% support price on dairy products could not be lowered
unless there was a corresponding decrease in lowering of the things that dairy farmers had to buy.
We were not successful in getting the amendment by but we tried and we will try again.
I know that we do have a substantial surplus in the nation but if we would get more of it in our
school lunch program if we would open up the gates of world trade and sell things abroad and take
things back from other nations that we need we wouldn't have any farm surplus. That would be a
good thing for our agriculture for our industry and in the interest of peace too and I hope that we
can get such a reciprocal trade program through on a long and permanent basis. Thank you very much.
Good evening ladies and gentlemen WMCT the commercial appeal television station presents at this
time as a public service a special feature with Senator Esther's keeper of Tennessee who is in
Memphis for the express purpose of reporting on what happened in this session of Congress 1949.
I'd like to present to you now ladies and gentlemen Senator Esther's keeper.
Senator it's a pleasure to have you back here in Memphis with us once again.
Thank you very much Charlie Sullivan. I'm very happy to be in Memphis after having been in the Senate
for about a year now. Well Senator that brings to mind exactly what we would like to talk about
and here a report from you tonight. The folks want to hear what you have to say and not what I have to
say so can you tell us something that went on in Congress this year? I know a lot went on but we'd
like to take up a few bits of legislation that you were active in. Well Charlie I want to say first
that I think you have my the purpose of my visit a little bit wrong I not only want to try to
report on some of the things that have taken place in Congress but it's my purpose to get around
Tennessee and see what the people think about their federal government give them a chance to tell
me where I made a lot of mistakes and I certainly have made a lot of them. So it's a mutual affair to
have the people tell me what to do and also I try to tell them what I've tried to do in the
reasons. Well Senator I can understand why you were elected with that view boy. Well I it's very
hard to me to understand how I got elected but I do have a lot of good friends here at Charlie. You
ask about some legislation of course here in this part of the of Tennessee we have many things
that we are interested in. I think with the particularly with the leadership of Senator McEller on
the appropriations committee we were able to get enough money to go ahead with the Memphis Harbor
Project which is a great thing and has the full sanction of the Corps of Engineers and of the
United States Congress. Also we got an appropriation for flood control activities in this area.
One of the big fights we had Charlie was over the TVA early in this session of Congress when we
wanted to go on with our industrial expansion and have the New Johnsonville steam plant up on the
Tennessee River. We had quite a fight in Congress the private tower trust was out to wreck the TVA
but we won that fight all right. So the TVA is going ahead and as a result of that we have
are going to have a large expansion of the activities at Oak Ridge and we hope to get the air
engineering development center which is going to be this great wind tunnel that you heard so much
about. Somewhere in Tennessee and wherever it's located will of course suit me fine.
I don't know what else particularly you were interested in Charlie I might say that we
were able to secure the passage of a very good cotton control act so that we are going to have a
sound cotton market and economy in the years to come. Well Senator that's one thing that I think
a lot of people are interested in in our television audience what went on for the farmer and you
have mentioned about the cotton can you tell us anything else. Yes this session of Congress passed a
long range permanent farm law it provides for a price support of 90% of parity for one year on certain
basic commodities then it may be lowered on a flexible basis to 80% next year then thereafter it's
on a 75 to 90% of parity a flexible basis but one thing about it the parity figure has been
increased always to include the cost of the farmers own labor then of interest to people in rural areas
we passed a rural electric telephone bill so that they're going to be able to long-last get
service. Oh I see. Life will certainly be welcomed by the farmer I'm sure. Well I don't know if you
ever lived way out in the country where it's hard to get to a telephone but there's been a great
demand for rural telephones and then this Congress passed a splendid overall housing bill the fight
for that bill was led by Senator Sparkman of Alabama it provides a housing accommodations
adequately I think for every income segment of our population they are a number there is an
authorization for a limited number of public housing units then there's a slump clearance
project and for the first time some assistance has been given to rural housing and I think that is
greatly in the public interest the South is spared very well in this the first session of the 81st
Congress. Those are heartening words Senator Kifalvar now in the time that we have left Kajou just
quickly tell us what we may expect when the next session of Congress convenes January 3rd.
Well we hope to complete action on federal aid for education to secure
expansion of social security benefits there are many items of our foreign policy that need
attention and we also want to adopt some more parts of the Hoover report to cut down governmental
expenses. Thank you very much Senator Estes Kifalvar for being with us tonight and giving us
this special exclusive television report from Congress. Senator Estes Kifalvar will be at the
P body at 8 o'clock tonight.
Ladies and gentlemen this is Estes Kifalvar candidate for the United States Senate asking for
a second term in that body speaking to you on this occasion. Today I want to talk with you about
some of the issues in the present senatorial campaign. I'm not going to indulge in a lot of
recrimination and bickering back and forth. On my wall in the my Senate office in the Senate
office building in Washington I have framed a very important saying of Abraham Lincoln and which
he says that if I spend all of my time answering my bitter critics I wouldn't have time for public
business and that's the way I feel about it. Any event it wouldn't be in a use trying to
go into all of the charges and misrepresentations and innuendo that's being put around by one of
my opponent, because he apparently changes his position from place to place and what he says in
Tennessee does not always coincide with just what his record is in the Congress of the United
States. Just as one example, now at Memphis Tennessee on the talkathon and I have the exact
transcript here. One of my opponents when asked whether he was for universal military training said
quote, I'm not for universal military training, I'm bitterly opposed to it and I'm conscientiously
opposed to it. Then when asked if he didn't vote for it in 1951 he answered quote, I definitely
did not. Well here happens to be the, that's what he said in Memphis Tennessee on the talkathon.
Here happens to be the voting record on universal military training and service.
S1, here's the motion to recommit, he voted against the motion to recommit, here's the vote for
final passage of universal military training which he voted for, here's the conference report
after differences have been worked out with the House of Representatives which he voted for,
three very distinct votes so that I don't think there'd be any use with one who shifts his position
from time to time and trying to follow the various and sundry shifts. So I want to talk about what
I've tried to do and what I plan to do in the future. Friends as you know I was elected to the House
of Representatives back in 1939 and then six years ago you elected me to the United States Senate.
Since I have been there I have cast a vote on thousands and thousands of controversial issues.
It wouldn't be possible to review all of that voting record with you on this occasion but I want
to tell you the general philosophy behind all of the votes that I have cast. That is that the
greatness and the main thing in this country is not our material things however important they may be
but our good hardworking religious people and I've always tried to sponsor and promote and aid
causes which would give the average man and woman of this nation a better opportunity
to participate in government to make a better living and to educate his children and on that
basis I've always felt that there should be a balance and an equality between labor, agriculture
and industry. I think each has its right plight rightful place and each is entitled to be protected
and I want to see each do well. I think each must do well if we're going to have a
forward looking and a prosperous America. I've always tried to work to see that the working man
got good wages. I don't believe in 50 cent a day wage. I want our working people to have good
working conditions and I have opposed any laws that I thought were intended just to penalize or
strike down the working man or some organization that he might belong to. And I believe sincerely
in our free enterprise system in this nation. I believe it means a competitive enterprise system.
I think in order to have a healthy economy we ought to have thousands and thousands of small
industries, small business people. I never want us to live in a nation where somebody can turn
a switch up in New York and everybody else in the nation has to dance or will be thrown out of jobs
and employment or something of that kind. I've always supported the fair trade practice laws so
that our businessmen would not be met with unfair competition. I have supported these strengthening
and the maintenance of the Robinson Patman Act for the protection of our business people and
particularly our merchants. I've been successful in getting an amendment to the plateen act so as to
prevent big corporations from swallowing up and merging with and bringing in little corporations and thereby
creating monopolies and eliminating competition. I want this to always be a nation where any
boy or girl in the state of Tennessee can go into business and go as far up the letter of success
as he's capable of going. I've always felt that the farmer is the backbone of this great nation of
ours and I've always supported a farmer in his efforts to have an even break in our economy.
I believe that we must have a successful agriculture if we're going to have a successful America.
I know that if you take one dollar out of the prices of the farmer that that automatically
takes seven dollars away from any business community. I've supported the soil conservation service,
the extension service, all of the great aids for the welfare of the farmer and I know that 90%
of parity may not be the ultimate answer but I've always worked for it and I now have a bill pending
to continue it on for another two years. I'm not going to sit by our with farm prices going
down and down and be far sliding scale where the farmer always comes out at the bottom when almost
everything the farmer has to buy stays up on a high level or is doing higher and higher. I will
always fight for the welfare of the farmer, I always have and I will continue to do so.
Then I know that we have a lot of farm surfaces in this nation but I think that we would open up
the gates of world trade. After all half of the people in this world are hungry for food, many of
them are starving. They have things in their nation that we need like chrome, manganese, oil and rubber.
We can send them our food stuff and bring back the things that they have that we need in this country
as was envisioned by the former secretary of state Cardell Hull. We ought to have a real
expansion of world trade not only for our own good but in interest of peace in the world and I've
always worked hard for Mr. Cardell Hull's reciprocal trade agreement program. I think it is a vital
interest to the people of this nation. Then too I think we could do more with our surfaces if we
increased our school lunch program and if we had full employment like I fought for in the full
employment act of 1946 and if people had all they needed to eat we wouldn't have any surfaces
in this country. I've always fought hard even before I got into public life for the Tennessee
Valley Authority. This great agency which has given us an opportunity for the first time in the
history of our section. It has improved our agriculture, our industries, given us great recreational
opportunities built up our standard of living. It is a tremendous national asset and I want it
continued for the welfare of the people of this section and of the nation. We know it's
imparral today. This idea of the private power people building a steam planted west Memphis
Arkansas is just for the purpose of making the TVA dependent upon private power sources at high
rates for its power. I fought hard against it in the United States Senate. I hope that somewhere along
the land we can stop this chipping away and sabotaging of the Tennessee Valley Authority.
I know that we are gaining strength in the nation. I know that justice is on our side and I'm going
to join my colleague Senator Gover and others in fighting as hard as we can for the preservation
of the TVA and in the end we're going to win too. I've always worked for the R.E.A. because I think
the electric lines and electricity for the farmer is one of the finest things that can come to the
farmer. It's being imparral too but we're going to win our fight for the R.E.A. We always have in the
Congress. I have always given special attention to legislation for the welfare of the veterans of
this nation. I co-sponsored the GI Bill of Rights. I worked for the Veterans Rehabilitation
Educational Program. Right now I've joined in a bill to for an increase in compensation by 10%
to our veterans. I've seen to it that they got acreage allotment and on my own I sponsored a bill
for a little RFC for veterans to give them a chance to have capital so that they could go into
business on their own. I'm on the Armed Services Committee on the Senate and as long as I'm there
I'm going to try to see that this government is grateful to these men who offer their services
for the welfare of their country. I have supported all of the great pieces of legislation recommended
by the National Legislative Committee of the American Legion and the VFW which have been passed
in the past 15 and a half years in the Congress. And I believe very sincerely in our social
security system. I want to see it expanded so as to bring in other people. And I've fought hard
and have filed many bills to increase the amount the federal government puts out for the old age
assistance program. We have accomplished much but I'm not going to resist in my effort until I
deserve an agent get just as much and are treated just as well as they are anywhere else in the
United States. They are entitled to that and I'm going to fight for these deserving old people.
Then too I've always tried to protect the people of our state from being imposed upon by a
monopolies and by cartels. I fought to keep the gas rates down when they tried to take away the
power of the federal power commission to regulate them. I fought the grab of the Tadlin's oil with
up to $300 billion when the Supreme Court said it belonged to the people of all of the states
and they tried to take it and did succeed in giving it just to the people of three coastal states.
I want to just set aside as a great grant in aid to the states for education and Tennessee's
park would have meant more than $200 million in the near future. Our school teachers are underpaid.
We need new buildings. What this great Tadlin's oil money would have meant to the state of Tennessee.
And I've joined Senator Cooper and Senator McFlellan in sponsoring a school building construction
program. I want our children in Tennessee to have justice good and educational opportunity
as they have anywhere else in all of the United States. And friends I've spent a great deal of time
in the United States Senate as chairman of the Senate Crime Investigating Committee.
We expose the hoodlums of this nation. The gangs were broken up.
There are many federal statutes including one for mandatory sentence for dope peddlers
prohibiting the interstate shipment of gambling devices. Making it easier to deport alien
criminals who have come into this country. Also we have put the nationwide mob wire service out
of a commission. This was the thing that held all of the gangsters together. It was owned by Mr.
McBride who was associated with a Mr. Venn down in Miami, Florida and Mr. Venn has of course been
in Tennessee as they paid publicist running talkethons for one of my opponents.
Ask any of the people in any of the large cities where our committee held hundreds and hundreds
of hearings. They will tell you that the gangs were broken up and that America today is a
cleaner nation than it was before. I don't want the support of these criminals were there,
were there political allies. I don't think that America can be a healthy place when we have
their influence and if we're going to be the example of democracy I think that we must
get out the criminal element wherever we find them either in business or in politics.
Now I want to say a word about this great issue of war or peace. I've always voted to keep
America strong militarily during this time of peril and I voted to keep up the air force when
others are voting to cut it down. But I think also that in addition to military might that the
United States must lead a moral and educational and economic crusade in the interest of peace.
I've supported the United Nations because after all it is the only organization that we have
through which we can work for peace. I'm not in favor of recognizing red China and red China can't
get into the United Nations and I'm not in favor of building up a hypothetical case just to let
the isolation strike down the United Nations. I've supported trying to hold together the free
people of the world as was envisioned by NATO. I've supported Mr. Hull's reciprocal trade agreement
program. I want us to make such a good example of democracy in the United States so that the hundreds
of millions of people in other parts of the world and behind the Iron Curtain will join us and not
the communists and trying to have a more peaceful and a better world. And ladies and gentlemen,
the next war of its come is going to be too horrible and too devastating to even consider.
We must do all that we can to prevent it. All that we can do with honor. If it must come,
if that kind of devastation must come to mankind, let it at least be said that the people of the United
States did their utmost to prevent it. I hope that I can work for you for another six years during
a second term. I have tried hard during this past. I went with more experience. I hope that I will be
able to do more for the people of Tennessee during another six years in the United States Senate.
I will appreciate your support very, very much.
I will say later.
Climaxing ten months of nationwide hearings, the Senate Crime Investigating Committee,
headed by Senator Kefaw ver left, opens hearings in New York. It's goal to uncover links between
the underworld and city officials. First witness is Frank Erickson, currently in jail for bookmaking,
under another indictment for gambling and facing a... Erickson, we have paid any legitimate
occupation which you ever are tech-a-pated. I refuse to answer on a grounds of my intended commitment.
The two million dollar income tax, Lane Erickson proves uncooperative. Senator Kefaw ver
warns. Don't want that. You don't call the Williamster. Erickson, but we...
I want to show all to respect to the Southers.
We'll have to deal with some questions that you're going to have to ask.
What did the abetion?
We can't pay you, Mr. Erickson.
My business, I'm going to visit some in jail.
Eddie votes to cite Erickson for contempt. A punishment the next witness, Joe Adonis escapes,
only because the committee had cited him previously. Adonis called by the committee the number two
man in a vast crime syndicate linking New York. Miami and New Orleans admits nothing.
Next day Frank Costello, whom the committee calls the crime syndicate's boss, appears. His
memories as bad as his predecessors on the stand. Asked by committee counsel Holly how much cash
he kept in a box at home, he answers. Well, I wouldn't know exactly, but I might have 40 of
stress deeds, 75,000 in there I wouldn't know. In other words, is the committee to understand
that to the best of your knowledge, the amount of cash that you have in the box is approximately
40 or 50,000 dollars. Later Virginia Hill House, a friend of slain gangsta bugsie seagull and other
raccotiers, is asked how she rose from rags to riches. Well, I worked a while then. The men I was
around that gave me things were not gangsters or raccoteers or whatever you call these other people.
The only time I ever got anything from them was going out and having fun and maybe a few presents.
Like a lot of girls that they've given me things and bought me everything I want and when I was
with Ben, he paid for everything. By Ben you mean Ben Seagull. Yes. And he gave me some money too and
bought me a house in Florida. Committee counsel Holly asked Mrs. House, how well she knew Frank Costello.
And did you have a occasion to meet Costello on other occasions? No only when I used to see him in
restaurants or someplace. And you did say him from time to time in restaurants? A few times.
Did you ever get any money from Costello? No. Admitting she won 20,000 a year on horses, Mrs. House
asked. Do you still vet the horse race? I see only thing now. I don't bet anything. Now I'm
afraid I'll win and then they'll say I made more money than I did. The committee calls Costello
for a third day, rejecting his lawyer's plea for postponement because of his condition. All right.
I have a low condition, you heard my statement through Mr. World and I stand by it and the
low condition will I testify until I'm well enough. You refuse to testify, Father? Absolutely.
Mr. Hally, all due respect to the sound which I have to look at. Nor for a lot of respect for him.
I'm not going to answer another question. You just because I'm not under arrest and I'm going to walk out.
Defying the threat by Chairman Kieferber of Senator Rest and a contempt citation, Costello does walk out.
Senate crime robbers call former mayor of New York Ambassador William O'Duire. Chief
counsel Hally asks what O'Duire learned about crime bosses from the mysteriously dead murder
witness Abe Raleigh. In the entire set up as an overall proposition Adana Frank as one of the big
fourth one of what you might call the board of directors. All right. Raleigh said so.
And I think he actually named a six man whom he thought was a top man. Is that right?
I'm not too sure of that. I'm not too sure of the names. I doubt if Raleigh's new the names.
He knew them wrong here in this neighborhood, but I doubt if he knew them all over the country.
Why not your presence you were about Costello in this overall gang picture as you knew it?
Well, I knew that the question, man. So suppose you asked me the question.
There's no trick in it. I just have this list of sex and I remember that you had a reason for not
including Costello. Well, the main reason I had is that I never did find his name,
mentioned in connection with any murder room, Brooklyn. I think you pointed that in.
And at no time was his name mentioned at all in the investigation as I recall it,
except in the turning in of Lucky. O'Duire is questioned about a war time meeting with the
alleged gambling boss Frank Costello. Now would you kind of give to the committee just what the
nature of the conversation was and a lot of things about army about air-coast contracts.
In other words, will you just because of its possibly important related as near as you can,
what was said by each of the parties during the coming? There wasn't a conversation between all of them.
There was a conversation between Costello and me. That's the conversation we'd have had.
And that conversation was not in the presence of the others.
On one point O'Duire clashes head on with Senator Toby of New Hampshire.
You've got bookmaking all over the country. They say there's a lot of it and
New Hampshire too, $30 million a year. Well, I'd never seen it proved.
Well, it's been on the papers. Yeah. They say that every New England bookmaker of any
account spends their summers right in Bretton Woods in New Hampshire. That's what they say.
I never heard that in your papers. I never heard that before. Do you want me to read it from the
Manchester? You can send it to me, but special delivery mail. I'm your bladder read it to you.
And I might say to you so that I don't believe anything I see in the Manchester Union.
Well, I'll tell you. Well, we haven't got a Costello in New Hampshire. I wonder.
The Senate crime probe, veriting out connections between New York political leaders and a
leds gambling boss Frank Costello. Here, Senator Toby queers a reluctant Costello on his ideas
of citizenship. Why did you want to be an American citizen?
Well, I, of course, I love this country. Have you always upheld the Constitution and the laws of
your state and nation? I believe I have. Have you ever offered your services to any war effort
of this country? No. Baring in mind all that you've gained and received in wealth,
what have you ever done for your country as a good citizen?
Well, I don't know what you claim, what you mean by that.
Well, you're looking back over the years and out at that time when you became a citizen.
You're now standing 20 odd years after that. You must have in your mind something you've done
that you can speak off to your credit as American citizen if so, what are they?
I paid my tax.
New York Fireman's Association head John Crane makes the hearings most sensational charge
against former mayor William O'Duire, who had denied under oath ever receiving money from Crane.
Paul, Mr. John, Mr. Crane, please. I told the mayor at that time that I had promised him the
support of the fireman and I offered him some evidence of that support on the occasion
in a form of $10,000. And was that in cash? I wasn't cash. And did he say anything?
He said, he didn't look in the envelope or anything else.
Committee Council Halleague questions Crane on payments totaling 55,000 to then Deputy Fire
Commissioner James Moran. Did you make any to Mr. Moran? Oh, yes.
And what contribution did you make to him? I made $2,000 contribution to him between that time and between
election day. And were they also in cash? Yes. And where did you give them to Mr. Moran?
He gave one behind him in his school building on his way home one night. Or one day I gave one on
his office. Does that make it total of 55,000? 55,000. James Moran, good from you.
The committee moves on to Washington to continue alerting the public on ties between crime and politics.
Ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion I want to talk with you about the Senate crime
investigating committee of which I had the pleasure of being chairman for almost two years during
the six years that I have been in the United States Senate. I'm very proud of the work that
our committee did. I have noticed a tendency on the part of one of my opponents and some other
others who are associated with him to try to disparage into discredit the work of the Senate
crime investigating committee saying it was a waste of money and a waste of time and it didn't
accomplish anything. Well, I suppose the best man in the United States to testifiers to whether the
Senate crime committee accomplish anything would be Mr. J. Edgar Hoover. The head of the federal
Bureau of Investigation and during the time of our Senate crime committee investigation Mr.
Hoover are a testified in connection with it and I want to read just a few excerpts from Mr.
Hoover's testimony. This was on March 26, 1951 before our crime committee at which time I was chairman.
Mr. Hoover, Mr. Chairman and gentlemen of the committee, the members of this special committee
of the United States Senate can take pride in its accomplishments during the past few months.
You have developed facts which brought out into the open alliances and tangling
alliances between the underworld and the upper world and unholy alliances between the criminal
element and officialdom which established a shocking disregard for the law and order.
Father Mr. Hoover said the work of this committee today has made great progress in
awakening a public interest and a public consciousness in the widespread ramification of the underworld.
The committee has not been freed from threats of violence and intimidation
but you have gone ahead with determination objectively and fearlessly. Your hearings have been
observed by millions of Americans on television screens and they have seen for themselves the arrogant
defiance of those who can seal their endeavors and hide behind the protection of the Constitution
for which they have so little regard. This awakened interest augures well for the future.
I hope it will result in an increased zeal for civic responsibility.
May I also express the hope that this committee under its particularly very able chairman.
I appreciate Mr. Hoover saying that about me incidentally.
We'll continue its unbiased, non-political exposure of the criminal element which has polluted
all too many communities of our nation. And then Mr. Hoover goes on testifying it length
about the work of this committee and I wish that all teniseans who are interested would read it.
Well we may not have a great deal of organized crime or did not have in tenisee but all good
citizens are interested in law enforcement and in seeing that the underworld does not affect the
business or political life of our great nation. We will all recall that prior to 1950
that it was well recognized that there had been a great growth in organized crime
that it was operating on a nationwide syndicated basis powerful at many local communities and
cities felt helpless to do anything about it. So that in the early part of 1950 I filed a resolution
to have a special committee appointed to study the problems of organized crime in this nation.
I fought for the creation of this committee through the Judiciary Committee and on the floor of
the Senate over a great deal of opposition. Finally the committee was created and for almost two
years in dozens and dozens of cities we held hundreds of hearings exposing to the spotlight of
public opinion. They racketeers, the dope peddlers, the big-time murderers, murdering,
cooperated the big-time gamblers and the hoodlums of this nation. But the people of the nation saw
sick and saddened them. Here these people taking billions and billions of dollars away from the
American people in narcotics, gambling, theft of automobiles, killing for hire had gotten very very
powerful in this nation. They were eating at the heart of our democracy. Many places they had taken
over. Their influence was felt in many counties and cities, in states and even at the federal level.
They were trying to control elections in many many places and they were successful in a lot of them.
Well as a result of it we found also that with all of this money they were getting into all kinds
of legitimate businesses, even great big transportation companies. And then these businesses
they use the same gangster tactics of unfair competition, gangster methods that they did in
their underworld life. But even more important than that we found that like termites they were
warming their way into government and politics at all levels. But many places the good people didn't
have a chance. Well we know that we can lose our democracy by corruption and and difference and
crime within just as we can lose it by invasion from without. We know that nations which in their
time were as great as we are in our time have a past away into into into third rate nations
or have lost their influence in the world. The cost of indifference and the influence of the
criminal and corruption within. And we simply do not want that to happen to the United States of
America. As a result of our crime committee these gangs were exposed. They were broken up.
As the people in New York and Philadelphia in Miami and Tampa and New Orleans in Cleveland and
Detroit in Chicago in Kansas City, St. Louis, Los Angeles, San Francisco, what happened out there?
We expose them. They have better law enforcement. Dozens and dozens of crime commissions have been
formed. Better people are participating in government and we got the criminals on the run.
Well as a result also of our crime investigating committee many very worthwhile federal laws were passed.
The for instance one bill was passed to prohibit the interstate shipment of
of our gambling devices from one state to the other which has had a very wholesome effect.
It's interesting to note in passing that when that bill was up in the House of Representatives in
August 1950, H.R. 807, that one of my opponents in this campaign offered an amendment to not
allow the bill prohibiting the shipment of gambling devices to apply to any army camps or clubs
or service men. Well the members of the Congress ridicule that saying do you want a different
code of conduct? Do you want a different kind of morals for army camps and what not then you do
for the rest of the public. So the amendment of my one of my opponents to this bill in which he tried
to make this exemption was voted down at that time. State codes have been improved. There's been
better law enforcement all over the United States. The hold of the gangster on this nation has been
substantially broken and it will continue to be broken as long as we have an alert people who
participate in government and see that the gangster doesn't get a hold on this. Well the back
bone of this whole criminal organization in the United States, the thing that held it together
from coast to coast, that kept the racketeers in touch with one another was the so-called continental
wire service. That was the gambling wire service or the mob wire service as it's often called.
It was owned by Mr. McBride, Mickey McBride of Cleveland, Ohio, and operated out of Chicago. Later
Mr. McBride transferred a great deal of it to his son. They either got her stole information from
the race tracks and put it on the wires instantly. It went out to hundreds and hundreds of sub-distributors
and then from these sub-distributors to the gambling houses, the bookmakers, and to tens of
thousands of people in all of the states of this union. It was around these gambling houses that
other kinds of crime took place. That was a central figure, narcotics and murder and a feverate.
It was around these sub-distributors that the mafia, this criminal underworld which we have broken
up in this nation and which had such a powerful influence operated. This gambling wire service,
we spent a great deal of time on. We exposed it for what it was and it had to go out of existence
and Mr. McBride lost a very substantial investment in it. It is at least of passing interest to the
people of Tennessee that Mr. McBride was a business partner with Mr. Robert G. Venn of Miami Florida.
Mr. McBride and his associates owned a radio station there, WEMI in which Mr. Venn had an interest
and was the general manager. Mr. Venn through this radio station constantly opposed the work of our
crime committee. He also opposed the work of the greater Miami crime commission which was trying to
get the hoodlums out of Miami. Here's the letter setting up the contract between Mr. McBride and Mr. Venn in
August 1948. This is the first time that I have known of in Tennessee that a professional
publicist who has come into the state to try to sell a political candidate. It's just like an
advanced man for a carnival or selling soap. It's a little bit unusual that this man who has
associated for so long and still is, as far as I know, with Mr. Arthur B. McBride's interest,
should be the one to come into Tennessee to try to defeat me. Well undoubtedly, these have been
many retaliations and threats of trying to take me out of public life. They're not on my side and
I don't want them on my side. Look at some of these trucks holding around gambling devices in
Tennessee. You'll see that they have a candidate for the United States Senate, all right, but that
candidate is not Estus Keefer. I don't want them on my side and I will always fight this
connection between crime and politics. I think that people of Tennessee are perfectly
capable of electing a United States Senator without the intervention of someone who would be
inspired not to be very friendly because we put the mob wire service out of business.
Well, among the other statutes that we got passed in the federal government as a result of our
crime investigation was a mandatory sentence for dope peddlers and sellers after their first
defense. And this has done a whole lot to clean up the narcotics condition in this country as Mr.
Enzlinger, the head of the Bureau of Narcotics will tell you. Then we also recommended to the Congress
and that the Immigration and Naturalization Act be amended so that we could deport some of
these dozens and dozens of leading racketeers in this country who were the heads of some of these
criminal centricates, many of them were naturalized Americans. And I don't think the United States
owes there many obligation to keep them here when they engage in terrible criminal activity.
Well, the law was and it used to be very, very strict on deporting these people, but upon
our recommendation the law was amended so that they could be deported if they committed some
act of moral turpitude for which they were convicted within five years after they were admitted.
Or if it was more than five years if they committed two acts. And the judge had to, and this would
be true unless the judge at the time of the hearing, or they're in 30 days thereafter, recommended
against deportation. Well, one of my opponents for some strange reason, I don't know what the,
I don't know of any of these criminal aliens in Tennessee who were interested. They weren't
any of them in Tennessee. On April 22, 1951, introduced a bill, HR 4794, which would allow the judge
any time, any time up to deportation to recommend against deportation. This was taken up with the
Attorney General of the United States who said that it would have the result of preventing the
deportation of many alien criminals who ran this country and who ought to be deported. Well,
that's a very interesting situation to develop. I don't know what people it was intended to prevent
from being deported, but it certainly would have afforded the work of the Attorney General of the
United States, and it would have afforded the recommendation of our Crime Commission Committee.
Ladies and gentlemen, I think we must always keep America a clean nation, free from the influence of
the recordiers and mobsters, and I'm going to keep on doing the best I can, regardless of what
pressure our effort may be used against me and this campaign are in the future. Thank you very much.
This is Esther's key for campaigning for the presidency. I want to talk with you about some of the
vital issues of today. Today, let us talk about corruption. We have all been shocked and a little
more terrified by the evidence of corruption at many levels of government in Washington, in some states,
and in some cities. The situation must be cleaned up. Confidence in government must be fully
restored. Politics must be made completely honest again. As president, I would make this my first
order of business. Working together with the states and local governments and honest citizens
everywhere, we can put the recordiers, the influence peddlers, and the pay chislers out of business,
out of government, and cause their influence to be diminished in this country. We cannot face the
perils of tomorrow unless we have absolute integrity all the way through our government at every level.
Thank you very much for listening. I hope you will help me in my effort.